Modern Application Development II
Project Statement
Vehicle Parking App - V2
It is a multi-user app (one requires an administrator and other users) that manages different parking lots, parking spots and parked vehicles. Assume that this parking app is for 4-wheeler parking.

Frameworks to be used
These are the mandatory frameworks on which the project has to be built.


Flask for API
VueJS for UI
VueJS Advanced with CLI (only if required, not necessary)
Jinja2 templates if using CDN only for entry point (Not to be used for UI)
Bootstrap for HTML generation and styling (No other CSS framework is allowed)
SQLite for database (No other database is permitted)
Redis for caching
Redis and Celery for batch jobs

Note: All demos should be possible on your local machine.

Roles
The platform will have two roles:


Admin - root access - It is the superuser of the app and requires no registration

Admin is also known as the superuser
There can be only one admin for the app
Admin can create a new parking lot
Each parking lot can have any number of parking spots for 4-wheeler parking
Each parking lot can have a different price
Admin can view the status of all available parking spots on his/her dashboard
Admin can edit/delete any number of parking lots, i.e., admin can increase or decrease the number of parking spots inside the lot.

User - Can reserve a parking space
Register/Login
Choose an available parking lot
Book the spot (automatically allotted by the app after booking)
Release or vacate the spot
Terminologies

User: The user will register/login and reserve any parking spot.


Admin: The superuser with full control over other users and data. No

registration is required, i.e. the admin should exist whenever the database is

created.


Parking lot: It’s the physical space where the collection of parking spots are available for an area. The parking lot may contain the following attributes.


id - primary key
prime_location_name
Price
Address
Pin code
number_of_spots
etc: Additional fields (if any)

Parking spot: The physical space for parking a 4-wheeler parking. The parking spot may contain the following attributes.


id - primary key
lot_id (foreign key-parking lot)
status(O-occupied/A-available)
etc: Additional fields (if any)

Reserve parking spot: Allocates parking spot as per the user requests.

This may contain the following attributes.


id - primary key
spot_id (foreign key-parking spot)
user_id(foreign key-users)
Parking_timestamp
Leaving_timestamp
parking_cost
etc: Additional fields (if any)
Note: The above tables and fields are not exhaustive, students can add more tables and fields as per their requirements

Similar apps
https://www.secureparking.co.in/


Application Wireframe
Vehicle Parking App 

 


Note:
The provided wireframe is intended only to illustrate the application's flow and demonstrate what should appear when a user navigates between pages.

Replication of the exact views is NOT mandatory.
Students are encouraged to work on their front-end ideas and designs while maintaining the application's intended functionality and flow.

Core Functionalities
Admin login and User login

A login/register form with fields like username, password etc. for the user and a login form for the admin
The application should have only one admin identified by its role
You can either use Flask security (session or token) or JWT based Token based authentication to implement role-based access control
The app must have a suitable model to store and differentiate all types of users
Admin Dashboard - for the Admin

The admin should be added, whenever a new database is created.
The admin creates/edits/deletes a parking lot. Note: Delete only if all spots in the parking lot are empty.
The admin can’t add each parking spot individually. The number of parking spots will be created based on the maximum number of parking spots in a lot.
The admin can view the status of parking spot and check the parked vehicle details If the parking spot status is occupied.
The admin can view all registered users.
The admin can view the summary charts of parking lots/spots.

User dashboard - for the User

The user can choose an available parking lot and allocation is done as per the first available parking spot. Note: The user can’t select a parking spot.
The user changes the status of the parking spot to occupied, once the vehicle is parked.
The user changes the parking spot status to released, once the vehicle is moved out of the parking.
The timestamp is recorded between parking in and parking out.
Shows the summary charts on his/her parking.
Note: The database must be created programmatically (via table creation or model code) or through shell. Manual database creation, such as using DB Browser for SQLite, is NOT allowed.

4. Backend Jobs

a. Scheduled Job - Daily reminders - The application should send daily reminders to users on g-chat using Google Chat Webhooks or SMS or mail

Check if a user has not visited or parking lot is created by the admin
If yes, then send the alert asking them to book a parking spot if required by them
The reminder can be sent in the evening, every day (students can choose the time)
b. Scheduled Job - Monthly Activity Report - Devise a monthly report for the user created using HTML and sent via mail.

The activity report can include parking spots booked per month, Most used parking lot by the user, amount spent on parking for a month or any relevant information to the user etc.
For the monthly report to be sent, start a job on the first day of every month → create a report using the above parameters → send it as an email
c User Triggered Async Job - Export as CSV - Devise a CSV format details for the parking spots used by the user till date


This export is meant to download the parking details (slot_id, spot_id,  timestamps, coset, remarks etc.)
Have a dashboard from where the user can trigger the export
This should trigger a batch job, and send an alert once done

5. Performance and Caching


Add caching where required to increase the performance
Add cache expiry
API Performance
Recommended and/or Optional functionalities
Well-designed PDF reports for Monthly activity reports (Students can choose between HTML and PDF reports)
External APIs/libraries for creating charts, e.g. ChartJS
Single Responsive UI for both Mobile and Desktop
Unified UI that works across devices
Add to desktop feature
Implementing frontend validation on all the form fields using HTML5 form validation or JavaScript
Implementing backend validation within your APIs
Provide styling and aesthetics to your application by creating a beautiful and responsive front end using simple CSS or Bootstrap
Incorporate a proper login system to prevent unauthorized access to the app using Flask extensions like flask_login, flask_security etc.
Implement a dummy payment portal (just a view taking payment details from user for paid quizzes
Any additional feature you feel is appropriate for the application.
Evaluation
Students have to create and submit a project report (not more than 5 pages) on the portal, along with the actual project submission
The report must include the following things;
Student details
Project details, including the question statement and how you approached the problem statement
Frameworks and libraries used
ER diagram of your database, including all the tables and their relations
API resource endpoints (if any)
Drive link of the presentation video
If a student has used any form of AI/LLM for the project, you will need to mention the extent of use in your report

Click here for project report demo 


Possible folder structure:





All code is to be submitted on the portal in a single zip file (zipping instructions are given in the project document - Project Doc T22025

Video Presentation Guidelines (Advised):
1. A short Intro (not more than 30 sec)

2. How did you approach the problem statement? (30 sec)

3. Highlight key features of the application (90 sec)

4. Any Additional feature(s) implemented other than core requirements (30 sec)

Note:

1. The final video must not exceed 5-10 minutes.

2. Keeping your video feed on during recording (like in a screencast) is optional but recommended.


The video must be uploaded on the student drive with access to anyone with the link and the link must be included in the report:
This will be viewed during or before the viva, so it should be a clear explanation of your work.
Viva: after the video explanation, you are required to give a demo of your work, and answer any questions that the examiner asks:
This includes making changes as requested and running the code for a live demo.
Other questions may be unrelated to the project itself, but are relevant to the course.
Instructions
This is a live document and will be updated with more details (wireframe)
We will freeze the problem statement on or before 20/04/2025, beyond which any modifications to the statement will be communicated via proper announcements.
The project has to be submitted as a single zip file.